---
layout: post
title: Anagrhymes
permalink: /anagrhymes
tags: word-games
---
This Valentine's Day I spent a romantic evening with a glass of wine and a computer, compiling a list of around 2000 rhyming anagrams. I call these unique words 'anagrhymes'. Anagrhymes are rather like Kim Kardashian's love affairs: they sound as if they might be interesting, but turn out to be extremely dull. It eased my own loneliness to discover that almost all of the word groups turned out to lack anything more than a superficial connection. In addition, there were some very ugly discoveries: 'incest' is just one letter away from being 'nicest'. The best anagrhyme is probably 'tapestries' / 'striptease', which just goes to show how unexciting most of them are.

gallery, allergy, largely, regally  
cartesian, ascertain, sectarian  
psalters, plasters, staplers  
parental, paternal, prenatal  
layering, relaying, yearling  
coursing, scouring, sourcing  
certification, rectification  
catering, creating, reacting  
alerting, altering, relating  
adroitly, dilatory, idolatry  
conservation, conversation  
teheran, earthen, hearten  
skating, staking, tasking  
psalter, plaster, stapler  
loaders, ordeals, reloads  
lasting, salting, slating  
drawers, rewards, warders  
dangers, ganders, gardens  
catered, created, reacted  
carting, crating, tracing  
capitol, optical, topical  
angered, enraged, grenade  
andrews, wanders, wardens  
ambling, blaming, lambing  
alerted, altered, related  
petitioners, repetitions  
intervening, reinventing  
impressions, permissions  
deification, edification  
cataloguing, coagulating  
calligraphy, graphically  
attentively, tentatively  
anthologies, theologians  
ulster, luster, lustre  
striptease, tapestries  
statements, testaments  
spotlights, stoplights  
skates, stakes, steaks  
serves, severs, verses  
rashes, shares, shears  
procedures, reproduces  
praetorian, reparation  
pertaining, repainting  
naples, panels, planes  
marine, airmen, remain  
mantle, mantel, mental  
last, lats, salt, slat  
kroc, rock, cork, rock  
introduces, reductions  
intervened, reinvented  
infarction, infraction  
indiscreet, iridescent  
incest, insect, nicest  
impressive, permissive  
impression, permission  
housewares, warehouses  
fliers, lifers, rifles  
filtration, flirtation  
elisha, sheila, shelia  
egocentric, geocentric  
discerning, rescinding  
delude, dueled, eluded  
decimation, medication  
decimating, medicating  
dealership, leadership  
damien, maiden, median  
countering, recounting  
conserving, conversing  
chattering, ratcheting  
certifying, rectifying  
bruise, buries, rubies  
begins, beings, binges  
barely, barley, bleary  
auctioning, cautioning  
arnold, roland, ronald  
algorithms, logarithms  
alarmingly, marginally  
admonition, domination  
aden, dane, dean, dean  
unaltered, unrelated  
statement, testament  
stateless, tasteless  
spotlight, stoplight  
snatching, stanching  
resorting, restoring  
reserving, reversing  
redrawing, rewarding  
posturing, sprouting  
pertained, repainted  
parceling, replacing  
overturns, turnovers  
orientals, relations  
limestone, milestone  
licensing, silencing  
kitchener, thickener  
hangovers, overhangs  
foundling, unfolding  
excepting, expecting  
enlisting, listening  
downloads, woodlands  
discerned, rescinded  
densities, destinies  
demurring, murdering  
demanding, maddening  
decimated, medicated  
creditors, directors  
crediting, directing  
creations, reactions  
courteous, outsource  
countered, recounted  
complaint, compliant  
collapsed, scalloped  
certitude, rectitude  
certifies, rectifies  
certified, rectified  
buttering, rebutting  
buffering, rebuffing  
auctioned, cautioned  
attentive, tentative  
aspirates, parasites  
argentine, tangerine  
altitudes, latitudes  
allotting, totalling  
allergies, galleries  
algorithm, logarithm  
seton, stone, stone  
sabre, baser, saber  
rated, trade, tread  
posts, spots, stops  
parts, tarps, traps  
nepal, panel, penal  
mabel, mable, amble  
lasts, salts, slats  
klein, kline, liken  
horne, rhone, heron  
herod, rhode, horde  
dowry, rowdy, wordy  
demos, domes, modes  
dales, deals, leads  
bryon, byron, robyn  
brain, brian, rabin  
boers, bores, robes  
beard, bared, bread  
baird, braid, rabid  
aries, arise, raise  
argon, groan, organ  
andes, danes, deans  
alger, elgar, lager  
theaters, theatres  
swelters, wrestles  
sondheim, hedonism  
socrates, coasters  
snatched, stanched  
skirting, striking  
singling, slinging  
shooting, soothing  
seething, sheeting  
resorted, restored  
reserves, reverses  
rescuing, securing  
recourse, resource  
pursuing, usurping  
pointers, proteins  
platters, prattles  
pedaling, pleading  
painters, pertains  
mutilate, ultimate  
minutely, untimely  
meriting, mitering  
mastered, streamed  
licenses, silences  
levering, reveling  
layovers, overlays  
kitchens, thickens  
insulted, unlisted  
hassling, slashing  
greening, reneging  
glinting, tingling  
gateways, getaways  
flirting, trifling  
excepted, expected  
entrails, latrines  
entirety, eternity  
enlisted, listened  
enlarges, generals  
earnings, grannies  
drugging, grudging  
download, woodland  
doubters, obtrudes  
dorothea, theodora  
discreet, discrete  
discerns, rescinds  
desiring, residing  
deranged, gardened  
depraved, pervaded  
departed, predated  
demurred, murdered  
decimate, medicate  
creditor, director  
credited, directed  
creators, reactors  
creative, reactive  
creation, reaction  
compiles, complies  
compiled, complied  
cloister, costlier  
clippers, cripples  
climaxes, exclaims  
clematis, climates  
clanging, glancing  
cheating, teaching  
cheaters, teachers  
chartres, charters  
charming, marching  
charmers, marchers  
caterers, terraces  
carvings, cravings  
calipers, replicas  
buttered, rebutted  
builders, rebuilds  
brawling, warbling  
brailles, liberals  
bolsters, lobsters  
blotting, bottling  
blisters, bristles  
auctions, cautions  
aspiring, praising  
aspirate, parasite  
articles, recitals  
arrested, serrated  
angering, enraging  
ancients, instance  
altitude, latitude  
allotted, totalled  
abridges, brigades  
abhorred, harbored  
tribune, turbine  
theater, theatre  
stating, tasting  
staples, pastels  
sorting, storing  
silvers, slivers  
signing, singing  
sidling, sliding  
shepard, phrased  
setting, testing  
setters, testers  
sellers, resells  
seating, teasing  
routing, touring  
rousing, souring  
robbins, ribbons  
reviews, viewers  
retrain, terrain  
retired, retried  
retards, traders  
rescues, secures  
reid, ride, ride  
redound, rounded  
ragweed, wagered  
presume, supreme  
present, serpent  
pincers, princes  
phasing, shaping  
perfect, prefect  
pedaled, pleaded  
patrols, portals  
partied, pirated  
overate, overeat  
osborne, robeson  
orlando, rolando  
orestes, stereos  
options, potions  
openers, reopens  
opel, pole, pole  
olin, lion, loin  
netting, tenting  
negroid, ignored  
moraine, romaine  
mooring, rooming  
michael, micheal  
meir, emir, mire  
meeting, teeming  
masters, streams  
martial, marital  
mars, arms, rams  
marines, remains  
marbled, rambled  
mallory, morally  
loraine, aileron  
looting, tooling  
looping, pooling  
list, silt, slit  
lineman, melanin  
license, silence  
leopard, paroled  
leif, lief, life  
leasing, sealing  
layered, relayed  
laurent, renault  
lapsing, sapling  
lane, lean, lean  
lactose, locates  
kitchen, thicken  
kirsten, kristen  
keeping, peeking  
juanita, tijuana  
jeffery, jeffrey  
intrude, untried  
insures, sunrise  
inkling, linking  
ignores, regions  
however, whoever  
horsing, shoring  
holster, hostler  
hitting, tithing  
hera, rhea, rhea  
hassles, slashes  
halters, lathers  
greened, reneged  
graders, regards  
golding, lodging  
gilding, gliding  
gateway, getaway  
garners, rangers  
gardner, grander  
ganging, nagging  
fretful, truffle  
folgers, golfers  
fitness, infests  
fingers, fringes  
finders, friends  
filters, trifles  
fillers, refills  
feeling, fleeing  
farming, framing  
farmers, framers  
erupted, reputed  
erasing, searing  
eighths, heights  
east, sate, seat  
earp, rape, reap  
earning, nearing  
earnest, nearest  
dummies, mediums  
dueling, eluding  
drawing, warding  
downers, wonders  
dormant, mordant  
dieting, editing  
desires, resides  
denting, tending  
density, destiny  
deepest, steeped  
decrees, recedes  
decreed, receded  
dealers, leaders  
daunted, undated  
dashing, shading  
darting, trading  
darnell, randell  
daniels, denials  
dairies, diaries  
cruelty, cutlery  
credits, directs  
creator, reactor  
craters, tracers  
coulter, cloture  
cossack, cassock  
coroner, crooner  
corking, rocking  
clobber, cobbler  
clasped, scalped  
choking, hocking  
cheater, teacher  
chasers, crashes  
charmer, marcher  
chalets, latches  
certify, rectify  
caverns, cravens  
cashing, chasing  
carving, craving  
carmine, crimean  
carmelo, marcelo  
capsule, upscale  
cantors, cartons  
calvary, cavalry  
callers, cellars  
burbles, lubbers  
bugling, bulging  
bribing, ribbing  
branden, brendan  
braille, liberal  
bolster, lobster  
boarder, broader  
bluster, subtler  
blushes, bushels  
blowing, bowling  
blowers, bowlers  
blotted, bottled  
blaster, stabler  
berated, rebated  
bellied, libeled  
bedroom, boredom  
bearded, breaded  
barking, braking  
auction, caution  
attuned, taunted  
assuage, sausage  
aspires, praises  
aspired, praised  
artists, straits  
article, recital  
armpits, imparts  
ares, ears, eras  
aplenty, penalty  
antlers, rentals  
annette, nanette  
amen, mane, mean  
algeria, regalia  
adheres, headers  
adhered, redhead  
abet, bate, beat  
abel, able, bale  
abed, bade, bead  
wonder, downer  
whiter, wither  
vowels, wolves  
venice, evince  
united, untied  
trails, trials  
torpid, tripod  
timber, timbre  
tilted, titled  
theron, throne  
talley, lately  
sweats, wastes  
sumter, muster  
struts, trusts  
stefan, fasten  
states, tastes  
stater, taster  
stated, tasted  
sprite, priest  
spears, spares  
souths, shouts  
snakes, sneaks  
slavic, vlasic  
slater, salter  
sitars, stairs  
sidles, slides  
setups, upsets  
setter, tester  
seated, teased  
salves, slaves  
sabers, sabres  
russet, surest  
rushes, ushers  
roused, soured  
romans, manors  
robbin, ribbon  
rhodes, hordes  
retard, tarred  
resins, sirens  
rattan, tartan  
ramses, smears  
ramada, armada  
purses, supers  
proust, sprout  
poring, roping  
pluses, pulses  
pisces, spices  
peruse, rupees  
perils, pliers  
payers, repays  
patron, tarpon  
patrol, portal  
pastes, spates  
parley, pearly  
paring, raping  
paltry, partly  
others, throes  
osborn, robson  
osbert, sorbet  
option, potion  
optics, topics  
opines, ponies  
nudity, untidy  
noting, toning  
neuter, tenure  
nashua, shauna  
misled, smiled  
minuet, minute  
milton, tomlin  
mervin, vermin  
melton, molten  
mayors, morays  
mating, taming  
manley, namely  
luring, ruling  
lovely, volley  
levied, veiled  
levers, revels  
lepers, repels  
leonel, noelle  
lentil, lintel  
lemons, melons  
layers, relays  
latent, talent  
kramer, marker  
israel, serial  
isolde, soiled  
inured, ruined  
insult, sunlit  
ingest, signet  
inches, niches  
ideals, ladies  
horses, shores  
hersey, heresy  
haynes, hyenas  
handel, handle  
halter, lather  
guiana, iguana  
grates, greats  
grable, garble  
ginger, nigger  
gilded, glided  
gerard, regard  
gerald, glared  
genres, greens  
garner, ranger  
gaping, paging  
fowler, flower  
finley, finely  
farmer, framer  
farmed, framed  
except, expect  
esther, hester  
esters, steers  
ernest, resent  
enlist, silent  
edward, warded  
easter, teaser  
earthy, hearty  
earner, nearer  
earned, neared  
dorian, ordain  
doreen, redone  
divers, drives  
disney, sidney  
direst, driest  
devoid, voided  
denude, endued  
dented, tended  
denser, sender  
denied, indeed  
defend, fended  
dearer, reader  
dealer, leader  
dawdle, waddle  
davies, advise  
dashes, shades  
darted, traded  
darius, radius  
daniel, denial  
danger, gander  
curtis, citrus  
crusty, curtsy  
creeps, crepes  
credit, direct  
crater, tracer  
citric, critic  
cavern, craven  
caveat, vacate  
causes, sauces  
casual, causal  
cashes, chases  
cashed, chased  
carves, craves  
carved, craved  
carter, crater  
cartel, rectal  
carole, oracle  
canoes, oceans  
caller, cellar  
cagney, agency  
cadres, cedars  
burble, rubble  
bugles, bulges  
bribed, ribbed  
bowers, browse  
bowels, elbows  
bombed, mobbed  
bluest, sublet  
blower, bowler  
binary, brainy  
berger, gerber  
bengal, bangle  
beards, breads  
barked, braked  
barest, breast  
bagels, gables  
awning, waning  
asmara, samara  
ashley, halsey  
artist, strait  
armpit, impart  
arises, raises  
argues, augers  
angels, angles  
angela, galena  
ambles, blames  
ambled, blamed  
alston, salton  
aliens, alines  
alfred, flared  
aileen, elaine  
agreed, geared  
afield, failed  
yates, yeats  
wiley, wylie  
wilde, wield  
weird, wired  
warps, wraps  
views, wives  
tunis, units  
trail, trial  
torts, trots  
tomas, moats  
tired, tried  
tenor, toner  
tatar, attar  
swede, sewed  
sweat, waste  
swaps, wasps  
strut, trust  
stein, stine  
state, taste  
spilt, split  
snake, sneak  
sloan, salon  
signs, sings  
sibyl, sybil  
shane, ashen  
scots, costs  
saves, vases  
salve, slave  
sales, seals  
sabin, basin  
ryder, dryer  
rusts, truss  
ruses, users  
rubin, bruin  
roses, sores  
rival, viral  
rises, sires  
rests, tress  
quiet, quite  
puree, rupee  
pride, pried  
pores, prose  
piles, plies  
piled, plied  
piers, pries  
pests, steps  
pesos, poses  
peron, prone  
patel, petal  
pasts, spats  
paste, spate  
pares, pears  
paled, plead  
optic, topic  
olson, solon  
noted, toned  
nobel, noble  
navel, venal  
nasty, tansy  
nancy, canny  
moors, rooms  
miles, limes  
merit, remit  
melva, velma  
mates, meats  
mated, tamed  
mason, osman  
mares, reams  
marco, macro  
lures, rules  
lured, ruled  
loves, voles  
lotus, louts  
loses, soles  
loges, ogles  
lists, slits  
liens, lines  
lenin, linen  
lemon, melon  
leary, early  
lassa, salsa  
lapse, leaps  
lanes, leans  
lakes, leaks  
knead, naked  
kites, tikes  
keeps, peeks  
keats, takes  
jaime, jamie  
italy, laity  
hosts, shots  
hoses, shoes  
hares, hears  
hades, heads  
grins, rings  
girds, grids  
gears, rages  
gases, sages  
gamma, magma  
gable, bagel  
freda, fared  
forth, froth  
flier, lifer  
fists, sifts  
fires, fries  
fired, fried  
files, flies  
fiend, fined  
feels, flees  
fates, feats  
fares, fears  
false, leafs  
evans, vanes  
ervin, riven  
epics, spice  
emits, mites  
elvin, liven  
eldon, olden  
egret, greet  
edwin, widen  
edens, needs  
ebony, boney  
ebert, beret  
eaton, atone  
earns, nears  
dusty, study  
dunes, nudes  
dries, rides  
dried, redid  
draws, wards  
drags, grads  
doyle, yodel  
doors, odors  
doles, lodes  
dirge, ridge  
diets, edits  
diana, nadia  
dewey, weedy  
dewar, wader  
deify, edify  
dawns, wands  
dawes, wades  
dario, radio  
darin, drain  
dares, reads  
dairy, diary  
crude, cured  
crisp, scrip  
crete, erect  
creep, crepe  
corny, crony  
corks, rocks  
coins, icons  
codes, coeds  
cloud, could  
clots, colts  
clare, clear  
civet, evict  
chose, echos  
chase, aches  
casks, sacks  
carve, crave  
carol, coral  
carla, clara  
capes, space  
caped, paced  
canon, conan  
camry, marcy  
calms, clams  
brute, rebut  
brunt, burnt  
brags, grabs  
brady, darby  
bored, robed  
boles, lobes  
board, broad  
blows, bowls  
blots, bolts  
blake, bleak  
berle, rebel  
bates, beats  
basel, sable  
banes, beans  
balms, lambs  
ayers, years  
avers, raves  
auden, duane  
atria, tiara  
artsy, stray  
anita, tania  
angry, rangy  
angel, angle  
ample, maple  
alton, talon  
aloft, float  
aline, alien  
alden, laden  
akron, koran  
advil, vidal  
adler, alder  
adept, taped  
weir, wire  
wasp, swap  
warp, wrap  
ware, wear  
wake, weak  
wade, awed  
vein, vine  
tort, trot  
tide, tied  
tess, sets  
sues, uses  
sony, nosy  
sept, pest  
sean, sane  
scot, cost  
saks, asks  
ryan, yarn  
ruby, bury  
riel, rile  
reva, vera  
raul, ural  
rare, rear  
post, spot  
pits, tips  
piss, sips  
pate, peat  
past, spat  
part, rapt  
owes, woes  
orin, iron  
olaf, loaf  
odom, doom  
nous, onus  
nita, tina  
newt, went  
nest, sent  
nero, reno  
neon, none  
neil, nile  
moet, mote  
mist, smit  
milo, limo  
mien, mine  
meet, mete  
mays, yams  
mate, meat  
mary, army  
mara, rama  
lyle, yell  
lust, slut  
lows, owls  
lost, slot  
lewd, weld  
leos, lose  
left, felt  
lamb, balm  
kris, irks  
koch, hock  
jane, jean  
ives, vies  
ivan, vain  
irma, mira  
iran, rain  
imam, maim  
huts, thus  
host, shot  
hoes, hose  
hits, this  
hewn, when  
heir, hire  
hank, ankh  
hale, heal  
gums, mugs  
goya, yoga  
gory, orgy  
girt, grit  
gird, grid  
gels, legs  
gals, lags  
gael, gale  
frey, frye  
form, from  
flit, lift  
fist, sift  
fief, fife  
fate, feat  
fart, raft  
fare, fear  
ewer, were  
evan, vane  
eton, tone  
erna, rena  
erin, rein  
emit, mite  
emil, mile  
elva, vela  
elsa, lesa  
ella, lela  
elam, lame  
egos, goes  
eels, lees  
edam, dame  
eben, been  
earl, real  
dons, nods  
dogs, gods  
does, odes  
diem, dime  
deon, done  
dens, ends  
debs, beds  
dare, dear  
dale, deal  
crud, curd  
colt, clot  
colo, loco  
coin, icon  
code, coed  
catt, tact  
cato, taco  
cask, sack  
cary, racy  
carp, crap  
calm, clam  
calk, lack  
buds, dubs  
brut, burt  
bran, barn  
brad, bard  
bogs, gobs  
boer, bore  
blot, bolt  
bins, nibs  
bert, bret  
bean, bane  
bart, brat  
bake, beak  
ayes, yeas  
arts, rats  
arid, raid  
amid, maid  
alva, lava  
alps, laps  
alma, lama  
aids, dais  
adds, dads  
acts, cats  
abby, baby
